README.md, before:

Convolutional neural network practical
======================================

A computer vision practical by the Oxford Visual Geometry group,
authored by Andrea Vedaldi and Andrew Zisserman.

Start from `doc/instructions.html`.

> Note that this practical requires compiling the (included)
> MatConvNet library. This should happen automatically (see the
> `setup.m` script), but make sure that the compilation succeeds on
> the laboratory computers.

Package contents
----------------

The practical consists of four exercises, organized in the following
files:

* `exercise1.m` -- Part 1: CNN fundamentals
* `exercise2.m` -- Part 2: Derivatives and backpropagation
* `exercise3.m` -- Part 3: Learning a tiny CNN
* `exercise4.m` -- Part 4: Learning a CNN to recognize characters
* `exercise5.m` -- Part 5: Using a pretrained CNN

The practical runs in MATLAB and uses
[MatConvNet](http://www.vlfeat.org/matconvnet) and
[VLFeat](http://www.vlfeat.org). This package contains the following
MATLAB functions:

* `extractBlackBlobs.m`: extract black blobs from an image.
* `tinycnn.m`: implements a very simple CNN.
* `initializeCharacterCNN.m`: initialize a CNN to recognize characters.
* `decodeCharacters.m`: visualize the output of the character CNN.
* `setup.m`: setup MATLAB environment.

Appendix: Installing from scratch
---------------------------------

The practical requires both VLFeat and MatConvNet. VLFeat comes with
pre-built binaries, but MatConvNet does not.

0. Set the current directory to the practical base directory.
1. From Bash:
   1. Run `./extras/download.sh`. This will download the
      `imagenet-vgg-verydeep-16.mat` model.
   2. Run `./extra/genfonts.sh`. This will download the Google Fonts
      and extract them as PNG files.
   3. Run `./extra/genstring.sh`. This will create
      `data/sentence-lato.png`.
   4. If you downloaded the practical as a Git repository, run `git
      submodule update -i`. This will download the VLFeat and
      MatConvNet libraries. Otherwise install these two libraries in
      `./matconvnet` and `./vlfeat`.
   5. Compile VLFeat (`cd vlfeat ; make`).
2. From MATLAB run `addpath extra ; packFonts ;`. This will create
   `data/charsdb.mat`.
3. Test the practical: from MATLAB run all the exercises in order.

Changes
-------

* *2015a* - Initial edition

License
-------

    Copyright (c) 2015 Andrea Vedaldi

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
    obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
    files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
    restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
    modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
    of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
    WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

package: put a binary copy of VLFeat in

README.md, after:

Convolutional neural network practical
======================================

A computer vision practical by the Oxford Visual Geometry group,
authored by Andrea Vedaldi and Andrew Zisserman.

Start from `doc/instructions.html`.

> Note that this practical requires compiling the (included)
> MatConvNet library. This should happen automatically (see the
> `setup.m` script), but make sure that the compilation succeeds on
> the laboratory computers.

Package contents
----------------

The practical consists of four exercises, organized in the following
files:

* `exercise1.m` -- Part 1: CNN fundamentals
* `exercise2.m` -- Part 2: Derivatives and backpropagation
* `exercise3.m` -- Part 3: Learning a tiny CNN
* `exercise4.m` -- Part 4: Learning a CNN to recognize characters
* `exercise5.m` -- Part 5: Using a pretrained CNN

The practical runs in MATLAB and uses
[MatConvNet](http://www.vlfeat.org/matconvnet) and
[VLFeat](http://www.vlfeat.org). This package contains the following
MATLAB functions:

* `extractBlackBlobs.m`: extract black blobs from an image.
* `tinycnn.m`: implements a very simple CNN.
* `initializeCharacterCNN.m`: initialize a CNN to recognize characters.
* `decodeCharacters.m`: visualize the output of the character CNN.
* `setup.m`: setup MATLAB environment.

Appendix: Installing from scratch
---------------------------------

The practical requires both VLFeat and MatConvNet. VLFeat comes with
pre-built binaries, but MatConvNet does not.

0. Set the current directory to the practical base directory.
1. From Bash:
   1. Run `./extras/download.sh`. This will download the
      `imagenet-vgg-verydeep-16.mat` model as well as a binary
      copy of the VLFeat library.
   2. Run `./extra/genfonts.sh`. This will download the Google Fonts
      and extract them as PNG files.
   3. Run `./extra/genstring.sh`. This will create
      `data/sentence-lato.png`.
   4. If you downloaded the practical as a Git repository, run `git
      submodule update -i matconvnet`. This will download the
      MatConvNet library. Otherwise install MatConvNet in
      `./matconvnet` and `./vlfeat`.
2. From MATLAB run `addpath extra ; packFonts ;`. This will create
   `data/charsdb.mat`.
3. Test the practical: from MATLAB run all the exercises in order.

Changes
-------

* *2015a* - Initial edition

License
-------

    Copyright (c) 2015 Andrea Vedaldi

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
    obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
    files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
    restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
    modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
    of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
    WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
